Title: "Deep Dive: RDoc as a Blog Generator"

Author:: Pankaj Doharey
Date:: 2024-01-20
Tags:: rdoc, ruby, static-site-generator

== Introduction

After the initial proof of concept, let's explore RDoc's capabilities
more deeply. Can we actually make this work for a real blog?

== RDoc Features That Could Work

=== 1. Rich Text Formatting

RDoc supports:

* *Bold* and _italic_ text
* Headers (==, ===, etc.)
* Lists (both numbered and bulleted)
* Code blocks with syntax highlighting
* Links and cross-references

=== 2. Metadata

We can use RDoc's metadata format:

  Author:: Your Name
  Date:: 2024-01-20
  Tags:: ruby, blog, rdoc

=== 3. Code Examples

Since we're writing Ruby files, we can include actual executable
code examples:

  class BlogGenerator
    def initialize(posts_dir)
      @posts_dir = posts_dir
    end

    def generate
      RDoc::RDoc.new.document([@posts_dir])
    end
  end

== Challenges

=== Template Customization

RDoc uses ERB templates for HTML generation. To make it look like
a blog, you'd need to:

* Modify the class page template
* Create custom CSS
* Add navigation and archive pages
* Implement tag/category pages

This is non-trivial and requires deep knowledge of RDoc internals.

=== Post Organization

RDoc organizes by classes/modules. For a blog, you'd want:

* Chronological ordering
* Tag-based filtering
* Category pages
* Archive by date

You'd need to write custom Ruby code to generate these pages.

=== RSS Feed

Blogs typically need RSS feeds. RDoc doesn't generate these.
You'd need to parse the RDoc output or source files to generate
an RSS feed separately.

== Alternative Approach

Instead of fighting RDoc, you could:

1. Write posts in RDoc format (for familiarity)
2. Parse them with a custom script
3. Generate blog HTML with a proper template engine
4. Use RDoc only for code syntax highlighting

== Conclusion

While RDoc generates static HTML, it's not the right tool for
blogging. However, the experiment reveals interesting possibilities
for documentation-heavy blogs or technical writing where code
examples are central.

For a production blog, stick with Jekyll, Middleman, or similar
tools designed for this purpose.
